Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of the
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lopson today.
I'm Jane by Doctor Kevin Hong. He's an assistant
professor of sociology at the University of Macau. And
today we're going to talk about, uh, I mean,
he has several different lines of research, but we're
going to focus on magic, divination, dream interpretation across
human societies and also Uh, a little, we're also
going to talk a little bit about cultural evolution
and transmission biases and taboos. So, Doctor Hong, welcome
to the show. It's a pleasure to everyone.
Thank you. It's, it's a pleasure to talk to
you.
So let's start with magic then. I mean, I
know that you approach, uh, I mean, the kinds
of phenomena we're going to talk about today. You
approach them from a cognitive perspective. So how do
you approach magic specifically from a cognitive perspective?
Um, YEAH, so I, uh, study magic and I
conduct both fieldwork and uh theoretical analysis of magic.
I approach it from a cognitive perspective in the
sense that I view it as a natural product
of the human mind, um, as opposed to some
sort of uh phenomenon to be analyzed at the
societal level. Um, AS you know, it's possible to,
to view magic as uh a mechanism to that
serves some sort of social function. So, so I
acknowledge that um it, it does have that function
occasionally sometimes, but I want to push back against
that a little bit by saying that we should
primarily focus on cognition because on social functions often
uh depends on individual cognition to, to work, right?
So, so it's, it's really a natural product of,
of human psychological coating mechanisms, um, interacting with specific
environmental regularities um and So I study uh classic
uh anthropological types of magic such as sympathetic magic,
um, and I argue that it's just a form
of intuitive, although mistaken form of causal reasoning, um,
humans naturally in causality from correlations, uh, and this
process is usually is generally adaptive but can sometimes,
sometimes lead to systematic errors um in certain conditions.
Mhm. Uh, ARE there specific, I mean, from a
cognitive perspective, are there specific cognitive mechanisms underlying magic
and how it works?
Yeah, so for example, um, I, um, psychologists and,
and cognitive anthropologists often talk about intuitive causal reasoning.
So this is the idea that humans have, um,
evolved predisposition or tendency to infer causal relationships from
correlations or coincidences. And this mechanism is, as I
said, beneficial um for survival and, and reproduction but
also makes individuals susceptible to um mistakenly attributing causal
powers to seemingly unrelated objects or events. For example,
um the Uh, sympathetic magic that I referred to
such as voodoo dolls, um, exploits the intuitive belief
that similarity or previous contact, and this is called
contagion, can sometimes establish a causal link, um, which
makes sense in the ancestry environment, um, if you
think about, um. Uh, HOW disease gets transmitted, um,
but sometimes, uh, we tend to overgeneralize, um, these
intuitions, and this creates, creates these, uh, mistaken causal
beliefs, problems where we think that we can influence,
um, other people or, or create these causal links
where objectively speaking they don't exist.
Mhm. So you mentioned voodoo dolls there. Uh, COULD
you give us a few more examples of kinds
of magic that you've studied in human societies?
Yeah, so voodoo doll is, is a classic example,
uh, that exemplifies, uh, some of the principles of
magical thinking. A voodoo doll is an object, um,
created by humans, uh, where they intend to induce
harm to other human beings by this supernatural link
um that they created between the voodoo doll and
the real person and their enemy. Um, SO the
typical way of doing it is to, is, um,
is to obtain some, so there are two ways,
right? And the first is to make the voodoo
doll similar in some sense to your enemy and
then you harm the voodoo doll and the belief
is that the enemy is going to, is going
to be uh negatively affected. So you can name
your voodoo doll the same with the same name
as your enemy, right? Or, or you can attribute
some sort of um create some attributes uh that's
that resembles the attributes of the, your enemy and,
and. Um, ATTACH those attributes to the doll, um,
that's another possibility. Or you can obtain some parts
of your enemy's body, their hair, fingernails, right? And
then, um, uh, you make that, uh, an ingredient,
uh, when you make the voodoo doll. So that
now there, so that's, uh, a situation where previous
contact um is believed to create a lasting link
and then you harm the doll, um, the, the,
the belief is, is that the enemy is going
to be harmed. Right, so it's a very straightforward
instrumental reasoning. You want to do this thing, you
want to achieve this outcome, and you believe that
um creating this voodoo doll, this, this form of
magic, um, can, can do that.
Mhm. And are there other cognitive mechanisms associated with
magic or is it's just the ones that you've
already mentioned?
So this is just an example, um, and, uh,
James Frazer, the classic anthropologist, uh, came up with
the principles of magic of sympathetic magic, what he
calls, um, and the first principle is similarity. um,
HE calls it the law of similarity and second
is the law of contagion. And then both principles
manifest themselves in the example of voodoo doll. You
can, you can create this seemingly effective magic by
applying these two principles.
Uh, uh, SO you mentioned, or you mentioned briefly
earlier the social functions of magic. So what are
the, exactly the social functions of it? What kinds
of roles does magic play across human societies?
Right, so, uh, people have, so I, I should
say that I. I want to push back against
that view, um, but obviously people sociologists, um, primarily
have argued that magic can serve as, um, for
example, a form of social control, right? The belief
that uh there exists this uh uh this these
types of mysterious power, um, can. Create a condition
where people. ARE fearful when uh would be fearful
when they want to commit a crime, right, when
they want to uh act immorally, some sort of
supernatural punishment monitoring hypotheses similar to that hypothesis, um,
and, and that's the reason they exist witchcraft, um,
practices and don't exist in human societies. So that
would be some sort of social function or um.
Or, or people have argued the opposite, not the
opposite, but a complimentary uh role that magic plays
in human societies and that is it serves to
enhance social cohesion, and it serves intense social harmony
somehow. I'm not fully, um. Um I don't really
comprehend how they. The exact mechanism that produces that
effect, but people have argued that magic serves or
religious practices in general serve that function, social function.
Uh, SO, uh, religious, you mentioned religious practices. Why
is magic in any way tied to some religious
practices?
So I use the word religious practices very uh
liberally loosely, excuse me, uh, traditional religious practices would
include um So, so I wanna Make a distinction
between religious beliefs that posit some sort of personalized
um agent, a deity, a ghost or spirit that
that humans can interact with. And the sorts of
More automatic mechanistic uh processes that I described as
in the case of woods and I think they,
they share some similarities um and some anthropologists would
would categorize them under the same general label, um.
Primitive religious practices, um, which I'm OK with.
Mhm. So let's talk now a little bit about
divination then. What is divination?
Um, DIVINATION is typically defined as the practices, um,
aimed at generating information about uncertain or hidden matters
through methods perceived um by us mostly as supernatural,
magical or beyond ordinary human capabilities, um, and specifically.
Um, DIVINATION practices has been categorized into two groups
as having two different functions. The first is to
predict what's gonna happen in the future. Um, FOR
example, the outcome of battles, um, whether a particular
harvest is going to be successful, um, or personal
fortunes. So that's the first function and the second
function is to review. Uh, HIDDEN or obscured information,
um, that's not necessarily about the future, it can
be about the past, um, or something that's already
happening, for example, um, identifying the causes of, uh,
physical discomfort, illnesses, um, locating, um, sites of lost
items, um, or, or exposing secret transgressions and so
forth. So those are the two functions, the imminations,
um. Serve can be used in human societies.
Is the Venation common across human societies and by
the way, I can ask you the same thing
about magic. Are these kinds of practices common across
human societies? Are they human universals or something close
to that?
Uh, I think it's some something close to it.
I'm not 100% certain that every single society has
them, um, but the ethnographic and historical record shows
that they are extremely common, prevalent, uh, in human
societies, and they've been used for a variety of
different purposes. So some of the social function. TALKED
about, um, right, but that, that, that, that depends
on um a cognitive, uh, basis. So diation is
common because we want to know um about things,
what will happen, uh, or something that's bothering us
on the ident what's causing the illness or misfortune,
and magic serves as the means to, to, um,
to fix things, right? We want to exert control,
um, over the immediate environment. Sometimes there's ordinary instrumental
actions, um, other times we rely upon magic, so
they are very common.
Mhm. Tell us about this idea of divination as
an epistemic technology. What does that mean?
Yeah, so really this, this is to say that
uh divination is and should be viewed as what
it appears to be and that is means to
generate information methods to generate information in order to
facilitate human decision making. And the fancy word is
epistemology is right, the, the words in philosophy for
obtaining information, obtaining knowledge, and we just use that
um uh to show that divination serves this purpose,
right? So it's not about This is again to
emphasize the cognitive dimension of divination, a way to
generate, ways to generate information that hopefully will be
useful to make decisions. EPISTEMIC technology and, and, and
um and framed in this way, it's qualitatively similar
to ordinary information technologies such as weather forecasting um
or, or stock market uh prediction.
Mhm. And what kinds of social roles does it
play exactly?
Um, IT plays, it can play a lot of
social roles, um, for example, it, uh, it is
said to Uh, to have been used to resolve
social conflict, right, when both, when, when, um, two
sides of the party don't agree on some matters
of interest, uh, and there's really no way to
resolve the issue, they they rely upon divination and
it's let God decide what to do, um, or
phone political actors can use it to improve their
legitimacy, um. Right, to say that they had a
dream about a dragon of some sort in China,
this was very common, um, and, and that would
signal to the people that, that he is the
chosen person um to, to rule. So those are
some examples of how divination can be used um
for strategic um sometimes manipulative purposes in society.
Mhm. Uh, SO when it comes to devilation, for
example, in the case of magic, you mentioned voodoo
dolls, in the case of divation, what kinds of
forms can it take? I mean, what kinds of
practices can it involve?
Um, VERY, very diverse. So I mentioned the example
of dream domination. So you can use dreams somebody
dreams of something and uh a professional, a specialist
can offer an interpretation of the meaning of that
dream. So that's one form. And I have a
paper on that, as you probably know, um. Or
you could resort resort to some. Seemingly complicated. Algorithmic
treatment of objects. So Chinese would use yardsticks to
do this, right? So it's really a primitive form
of computation, but it's really, it's not for computing
computing. In the same way as as we do
mathematics, it's to predict what's gonna happen in the
future, um, numerology, so that would be a mechanistic
way of doing divination or they could um Perform
rituals, um, hoping to. Invoked to, to, to get
the attention of deities, supernatural agents, uh, and to
communicate with them and get the responses um as
answers to some questions. That would be another primary
way of, of doing divination and, and the, the,
the exact method of doing that um is again,
is very diverse. So Oracle bone divination, and again,
the Chinese example is, is, is one way um
or you could use Um, Strange. Any example to
get the attention of the deity and then somehow
transmitting. Um, GET somehow getting their response in some
physical object, right, and then you, you have a
sign and then you interpret the sign to obtain
the meaning.
Mhm. So, uh, let's not talk then about dream
interpretation. What, what is dream interpretation?
Uh, DREAM interpretation, as I said, is, is the,
the extraction of useful valuable information from dreams, um,
and, uh, such information is then often used to
predict what's gonna happen in the future and how
we respond to what's gonna happen in the future.
So that's dream divination and uh in my research,
I make a further Uh, categorization, um, offer a
typology of different types of dream, um. Different types
of dreams that would require slightly different interpretive effort.
So there is message dreams, um, which refer to
dreams, um, it's really a message. Messages being conveyed
by a supernatural deity, a ghost or spirit. They
are personalized anthropomorphic, uh, agents that tells you something,
um, not just in the form of plain language
that you understand. So your dead ancestor, um, uh.
Telling you that you should uh run away from
your house for some reason, right, because disasters can
happen and that would constitute a message dream. On
the other hand, there are sign dreams, um, and.
Which are non-message dreams, right? There's a sign that
you have to interpret somehow, uh, and here I
make the further division between street sign dreams and
symbolic sign dreams. Street sign dreams are. As the
name suggests, it's straightforward. You don't have to, you
basically immediately get what the meaning of that dream,
whereas symbolic dreams are often obscure, um, mysterious, and
that that would require a specialist, uh, a professional
dream interpreter to, to tell you the true meaning
of that dream.
Mm. Uh, IS there any other type or just
those two,
I think this is uh pretty much exhaustive categorization
of all the dreams
as far as I'm concerned. And by profession. No
dream interpreter, what do you mean exactly? What is
a professional dream interpreter? Does that kind of person
hold any specific position in the society they are
part in or how does it work?
Right, so professional dream interpreter, um. Generally, generally refers
to a person with um the the expertise in.
Interpreting dreams. It is what it means, right? Uh,
AND in early Chinese dynasties, I believe there were
the the court, so that the, the dynasty would,
would, would assign a point professionally, um, government. How
should I say this, right? Uh, OFFICIALS officially recognized
dream interpreters. OK, so, so they would be part
of the government, um, the state, and their job
is to interpret significant dreams, um, and so, so
that's a prominent kind of dream interpreter and they're
also. Uh, PROFESSIONALS who, um, who do not work
for the government, um, but because there existed, uh,
the need to for people to understand their dreams,
um, they, they get paid to interpret others' dreams
and to tell them the meaning of those dreams,
um. And there's the interesting part about this is
that there seems to be a decline in people's
trust um in professional dream interpreters over time, over
dynasty time, um, for, for some reason. So that's
that there seems to be this pattern, um and
and my interpretation is that it's, it's because dreams
are, there are some. Characteristics about dreams that makes
it um um. A bit more suspicious, um, in
terms of the Reliability of their interpretation. Because they're
private, right, you can make things up about what
you dream and um it's, it's not immediate, always
immediately obvious, right? There, there can be this culturally
agreed upon. Um, WAYS of interpreting meaning of specific
dreams. So compared to other divination methods, there, there
seems, there seems to be a decline in the
popularity and people's trust in uh dream interpretation, in
interpreting dreams, especially. As a professional activity. But people
have always believed that dreams. Meant something, right? It's
just interpreting, extracting the correct meaning of dreams can
be very difficult, and we can't trust any single
professionals, uh, any single specialists, but, but it, it's
possible, right? If there is, there's this really smart
guy, um, really knowledgeable, uh, specialist, then he or
she could, uh, in principle obtain the true meaning
of dreams.
But is it that in certain specific cases it
is the person herself that interprets her own dreams
or not?
I think that's possible, right? Um, AS a professional,
you know, you master the art of interpreting the
mean of dreams and then you dream of something
yourself, then you can try to interpret that for
yourself. Yeah, that's certainly possible.
Mhm. And what influences the way that that people
or how people interpret dreams? I mean, are there
specific cognitive and social aspects that play a role
here?
Right, so, um, there are Cultural specific. Aspects to
this, obviously, right? Certain, certain cultures might view dreams
in, in particular ways, other cultures slightly different ways,
but the universal pattern is that they all think
um dreams are significant, right? There's some meaning to
be extracted. And at the level of individual cognition.
I think there's the uh uh tendency for people
to see patterns um even if sometimes real patterns
do not exist. So this is pattern detection. Um,
AND, um, There's also, so now I'm talking about
sort of the cultural transmission biases that plays a
role, um. In this, they tend to. Retrospectively infer
meaning of their dreams and sometimes they would refer
to um documented records or testimonies from other people
that this dream uh means that thing and lo
and behold like that, that was fulfilled, right, accurate
prediction, um, and that contribute to their, their, um.
Uh, TRUST, the confidence in the validity of dream
as um something meaningful, uh, that conveys meaning to
be extracted. And then there's uh what I call
false memory or fabrication dreams. So we tend to
sometimes when we dream of something, we are. In
our brain, like we don't possess the full, the,
the complete story. So we make things up, we
fill in the blanks um cognitively, and then we
tell the story to other people um which further
contributes to um transmission of um dream divination, successful
dream divination episodes and that that contributes to um
its persistence.
And why is it that cross culturally, people believe
that dreams can foretell what will happen in the
future?
Um, BECAUSE people, so somehow I already mentioned some
of the reasons, dreams are, so the the ability
to dream is a human universal. Um, I think
we have good neuroscientific evidence for that. So we
dream and dreams often. Tells us, tell us or
or we interpret dreams as a somewhat coherent, coherent
story. Right, it has meaning and, and, um, in
particular, we would dream of something that we are
familiar with or, or ancestors or friends and relatives
doing things. Um AND there are these plots, it's
like a mini video, a movie of some sort.
And so there's this very strong intuition that. That
can't mean nothing, right? There there's got a got
means something and then there's these, this efforts to
try to identify patterns, right to um And in
some cases there, um there would be systematic efforts
to, to document other people's dreams and training for
patterns um um and, and, um, people would, would
uh write divination manuals, dream divination manuals based on
these combination of transmitted records and their own intuition.
And then readers read these, they get. And, and
so those are books, those are books, books mean
something, um, and, and uh so that contributed to
their confidence in dream divination for their.
Mhm. So, I mean, in modern industrialized societies, there
are many people who tend to think of magic
or practices like magic and divination as being archaic
and not really, and no longer part of the
kinds of societies we live in. But is, is
that really the case? I mean, uh, do practices
like magic and divination still persist in modern industrialized
and post-industrial societies, and if so, how do they
persist there?
Yeah, so, um, a common ar, uh, I wanna
say a little bit about the historical development of
this, uh, this, this line of thought. The sectionization
thesis, uh, proposed by Max Weber and, um, and
his followers posits that this human societies post-industrial industrial
and post-industrial societies are becoming more secular. In the
sense that there, there was this gradual, uh, or
just decline of magical thinking, the world has enchanted
garden, um, that was a thing of the past
of the past and now we are, we are,
we're more than we no longer do that. And
then there was a pushback against that by psychologists
and anthropologists saying that no, no, no, we are.
We are still very much um superstitious um and
they they're. Profession workers to, to find, to identify
aspects in contemporary modern humans um where. They could
say that look, this is evidence that you are
still, we are or a college educated people are
still reasoning magically and so forth. So I want
to push back against that, so I want to
push back against push back. It's going back to
the original seronization thesis a little bit, um, and
say that. They exist Uh, magical thinking, magical practices,
which includedation. Exist in uh contemporary modern societies. But
they're not, but there there is a qualitative difference
between. Popularity, their popularity today in contemporary large scale
modern societies and its status in the past, uh,
traditional societies in the sense that we, um, It's
often marginalized. Right in our societies, so we can.
Yes, there are people who who believe in astrology
to some extent, tarot card divination, right, or, or
eating divination in China, um, but those are not
their, their, their status, right, their social, uh, political
status is, is nothing comparable to what it was
in the past, and particularly if you think about
the more. I I want, I want to use
the word primitive, but, but that's probably not um
a fashionable word to use anymore. TRADITIONAL societies, right,
where when people get sick. What do they do?
They go to the minor, they try to find
find out uh what's the the identity of the
ghosts or spirits that's causing the physical illness. OK,
that's what they do. There's no, not no medicine
in contemporary, uh, more than sense. um, SO you
perform divination and then you perform an exorcist ritual
to expel, to get rid of the ghost. Um,
WHICH is very, we don't do that anymore, right?
By and large, we don't do that. The vast
majority of people in contemporary societies would go to
the hospital, see a doctor, right? We, we have
the germ theory of illness. That does not require,
right, uh spirit possession, um. Um, IT just, it,
it does not allow that, right, um, metaphysically. So
that's the difference, uh, and I think it's that
difference is real, um. That we possess a, I'm
speaking about averages. In general, people in contemporary modern
societies have a mechanistic or materialistic worldview that would
make certain Claims about causality. Um, SUSPICIOUS and we
don't need any evidence. We just that just doesn't
feel right to us. Um, SO that's the difference.
Now I want to emphasize the, uh, the similarity.
There's still the um. Cognitive and cultural transmission biases
going on. So confirmation bias and the reporting of
uh predictive uh magical failures. And, um, so those
are some factors that contribute to the fact that
a minority of um population in contemporary modern societies
still um Believe, but not entirely, right? They might,
they might have some partial belief about the efficacy
of, of these practices, or plausibility of these practices.
So, some of these similarities um are due to
common psychological and cultural transmission biases, but at the
same time, I think we should um we should
face the reality that there is a very sharp
difference between the, the worldview that we have, um,
that's very different from the traditional worldview.
Mhm. So, uh, let me ask you now, what
is chance and where do chance-based explanations stem from?
Um, CHANCE, OK, so now we're talking about something,
um, different. So in my work, I, I define
chance, um, In particular, um, In the context of
using chance in explanations, explaining uh events that's already
happened. By invoking the intrinsic randomness or unpredictability, which
is inherent to the system, inherent to the uncertain
phenomena, and this is referred to as aliatory or
antic randomness. It's something about the process, process itself
that's random, that's unpredictable, and there's nothing we can
do about it, right? And we accept that as
a fact of the universe. OK. And this, this
is kind of uncertainty is fundamentally different from another
form of uncertainty which is called epistemic or subjective
uncertainty in the literature, uh, which refers to, uh,
the, the lack of knowledge of us human beings
because of uh the fact that we are finite,
cognitively finite creatures, we can't know. Things all that
well. Um, SO the fact that there are uncertainties
in the world is because of our own ignorance,
right? So, but that's different from, again, from the
intrinsic randomness. Stochasticity in the process or event itself.
Right. So, so, uh, that's the distinction and I,
the argument that I make, uh, in some of
my recent work is that um Human individuals. To
not have. The concept of chance in the former
sense, which is the, the aliatory, right, the intrinsic
sense. And that has interesting and then significant consequences
for how they understand their own cultural practices, um.
So that's what what are some of those?
Uh, SO in the case of gambling, for example.
Um, IF you think that there's no intrinsic randomness
and when you throw a dye, so let me,
let me start from the, from the opposite, right?
For us, people with Um, knowledge in probability, um.
We would view probably we would view the outcome
of the throw of a die, a fair die,
six-sided die as. Prob mistake in the sense that
it's 1/6, right, for any um. Any given number.
And that's just it, right? It's 1 or 6,
it's, it's a number, uh, and we can use
it to do computations. But, but we, there's, there's
nothing beyond that 1/6 that we can know more
about the process. If you don't have the concept
of uh uh aliatory chance, then you might think
that it's not. That you probably don't know that
it's just 1 or 6 thing, you think that
there's some method in which you could uh you
could uh resort to in order to get more
information about what's going to happen. So you would
do divination, right? You would perform divination rituals to
get um to you know hoping to know what's
going to happen uh in a uh in a
lottery, for example, you purchase ticket, you hope that
you're gonna win and you need to pick a
number out of 26, 36, um, so they would,
they would do divination rituals in order to, yeah,
to, to win. That's pretty significant, um, and, uh.
In another consequence that I talked about in my
other paper is, is that. If you don't think
it's possible that things can just happen for. Reason
for the reason that there exist these objective probabilities
in the world, then you always want to know
why, right? You want to You want to know
what's causing um this misfortune, right, happening seemingly for
no reason to this person. So there would be
this very uh potent. Psychological motivation for you to.
Really try to come up with some sort of
sort of explanation, and oftentimes those explanations are are
incorrect. Right, so and that that contribute to the,
the um. The prevalence, prevalence of uh. False beliefs,
um. Which includes taboos, which I talked about in
my other work.
Yes, we're going to talk about taboos later on
in our conversation. So, so let me ask you
now about some of the work you've done in
cultural evolution. I mean, tell us about transmission biases.
What are they and what are the different types
of transmission biases?
OK, uh, so again, this is a different topic,
um, and I should say that I I no
longer My, I don't focus, I don't spend much
of my time working on that, uh, my research
anymore. So, so this is my past work. Um,
I did some theoretical modeling, simulation modeling, modeling of
the evolution of cultural transmission. And um, so in
this work, uh, in this type of life work,
I study transmission biases which refer to the systematic
psychological or social tendencies, uh, influencing which ideas, behaviors,
practices, values are more likely to, to be passed
on within a society to be copied from one
person to another. Um, AND, uh, these transmission biases
shape cultural evolution by selectively promoting, facilitating, uh. The
transmission of certain cultural variants, cultural information, broadly speaking
over others, um, sometimes independent of their actual adaptive
value or truthfulness if I we're talking about um
beliefs. So it would be a sim uh in,
in a typical simulation um model, I would define
assumptions first. Individuals tend to Um, that there are
these different types of cultural information in the population,
excuse me, and then I set up some, some
of the very basic forms of information transmission dynamics
and then I evaluate, um, Alternative possibilities for individuals
to be, uh, for, for, for information to be
transmitted and then observe the uh equilibrium outcome at
the population level and say something about this is
the condition that favors the evolution of This bias,
right, conformance transmission bias or this is a condition
that would favor the evolution of uh payoff transmission
bias. Um, SO, so, so that's the, uh, so
that's what I do, um, yeah, for this.
Mhm BUT uh I mean, what are the different
types of transmission biases?
Um, YEAH, so, so in this literature, um, there
are generally 3 types of different transmission bias biases.
There are content-based. So, so these are, these biases
refer to the tendency for us to preferentially copy
some piece of information based on the content and
the examples would include. Uh, NEGATIVITY or threat bias,
we tend to preferentially copy information that's uh negative,
perceived as negative, or threatening or dangerous. Um, uh,
OR the tendency to preferentially copy transmit information that
is fear-inducing or morally charged, um. Compared to uh
the information that does not have this um property.
So that's a content-based uh and then there is
model-based uh bias, um, so. Uh, THE most famous,
uh, model-based bias is probably, uh, prestige bias or
cultural information from the more prestigious individual, high status
individual, respected individuals, uh, tend to get, uh, copied
or adopted more than uh information possessed by mediocre
average, uh, individuals. Um, AND then there's uh similarity
bias, so people also have a tendency to preferentially
copy information from those who are similar to themselves
in some aspect. Like sex or gender, um, or
age or ethnic group. Where people who speak the
same language as themselves. Um. Uh, SO that's success,
uh, sorry, similarity-based bias, uh, and then there's success
based based payoff bias. So this is a situation
where individuals can observe, uh, visibly the payoff of
some. Uh, CULTURAL practice and then they're basing their
decision on the observed success. The idea is that
they're gonna preferentially copy. Uh, CULTURAL practice, cultural variants
and that, uh, results in more success. So that's
the uh the second type. Uh AND the 3rd
type of transmission bias is frequency dependent bias. So
this would include conformity bias, which um I studied
uh a little bit, um, and also the opposite
of conformity bias would be rarity bias. People for
some reason and their conditions uh for this to
happen, um, would preferentially copy the, the rare variant.
Uh, IN the population, it's the opposite of conformance
bias. Um, AND then there is so-called unbiased frequency
dependent, which means that the probability for individual to
copy, um, cultural variants in the population is the
same as the proportion of that cultural variant in
the population. So, say the cultural variant A has
um 0 95% presence in the population and the
individual is having um a 95% probability of copy
that variant, that would be a case where there's
no bias. And the consequence of having no bias
in frequency dependent transmission is that the frequency of
different cultural variants. Will not change over time. It
will remain at 95%.
Right. So do these different biases operate alone or
can they be combined?
Uh, THEY They can be combined, and I think
in reality, um, they are almost always combined, um,
and this is because. We There are almost always
multiple cues, right? um THAT exist. Simultaneously, um, that
we need to take into consideration when we make
a decision regarding what to copy. Um, And I
think this is, uh, this is obviously true, OK,
um, and in my research, I would, I emphasize
that, uh, transmission biases in cultural evolution rarely operate
in isolation and the, the fact that, uh, most
research tend to focus on one, tend to focus
on individual transmission biases is because they uh prefer
analytic clarity, right? It's easier to analyze the consequence
or the evolution of Um, biases when you focus
on what. Um, INDIVIDUALLY or these transmission mices individually.
uh, BUT it's possible to come up with some
ways to combine that individuals use to combine different
Ques, for example, frequency and payoff. So in the
paper that I published a couple of years ago,
I, I would, um. Um, I came up with
a model, uh, where individual agents combine, so they
take, which means taking into consideration, right, both factors
when they're making the decision. Uh, SO payoff they
have payoff information about this particular, this particular cultural
variants, but they also have, they sample, um, some,
some individuals from the. Population and then they compute
the frequency and they use that frequency information in
their decision making as well. Um, AND here we
have to, I have to make some assumptions about
how individual agents. Uh, COMBINE this, and that's, um,
and I have to justify why I make those
assumptions, um. Um, SO, so, so, yeah, so I
think in reality people almost always um combine different
biases to make their decisions, but this presents a
challenge for scholars to, to, to, to analyze these
uh transmission biases and um. And, and that can
be, can be difficult.
Mhm. So in regards to com combining different kinds
of biases, transmission biases, tell us about the specific
example of the combination of the conformity or the
conformist bias and the payoff bias in decision making.
Um, OK, so an example would be Suppose, um,
a, a newcomer to the technical term for this
is um naive, culturally naive person, individual, um, is
faced with this, with a decision of either adopting.
Cultural variant A or B. TO say that, um.
So, so, in, um, but let me make that
a bit concrete. So let's say this is a
person who is deciding between two different farming practices,
um, very important choice and let's say for the
sake of argument that there are only two options
either A or B. And then um the naive
person observe. It can can observe uh what others
are doing in the community. And um frequency information
in this case would just be the proportion of
um the. Observed sample, the models that that he
or she samples from, from the population. Yeah Uh,
practicing a particular, uh, um. Um, SORRY, engaging in
a particular farming practice. And let's say, uh, practice
A is. Is being adopted by 75% of the
population. Practice B is, is used by 25%. That's
frequency information, and the agent is going to consider
that. Another type of information would be payoff. So
in this case, it could, it would refer to
the uh uh agricultural productivity associated with uh practice
A or practice B. And let's say this naive
person has access to such payoff information. OK. Now
he or she has two types of cues, 2
types of information, and A decision needs to be
made. So that person has to mentally weigh the
relative importance of these two types of information. It
could be the case that uh the vast majority
of the population is practicing A for some reason,
I say, but he observes that uh uh the
productivity is actually higher for B. Now, right, he
has to make a decision and it's gonna depend
on uh how we formally model the decision-making process.
If he or she weighs on frequency information more
heavily than that, then, then, um, then that person
is more likely to adopt agricultural practice A. On
the other hand, if that person weighs payoff information
more heavily then um then he's gonna adopt practice
B. And same logic would apply to other, um,
the adoption of other cultural practices.
Uh, I mean, and do we understand why in
combining different kinds of biases, some people would, uh,
care more about the information coming from one bias
than the other and why they would weigh them
differently, uh, and, and pick one over the other.
I mean, do, do we understand why and how
that happens?
We actually do not understand the um the empirical
reality of this very well. Um, WHAT I've been
talking about is for theoretical modelers. THIS is how,
how they do their work, how, how I used
to do this type of work. Uh YOU make
assumptions and then you analyze the Evolutionary trajectory of
how different, um, so you can set up a
stimulation study where agents um have different weights. Yeah,
OK. And then you have them interact or we
have them engage in this uh copying uh game,
this process, and then you run the simulation for
a large number of generations and you observe the
equilibrium outcome. If it turns out that there's a
particular weight that seems to um Uh, to be
stable after you run the stimulation for 100, 200
generations, then you can make an argument that this
is, uh, this, this particular combination, this particular weight
of payoff cues and frequency cues can evolve and
you justify that, that by, uh, in your work.
I don't think there's any work um so far
in psychology that examines empirically how people Do this
and you can imagine why this is difficult, right?
Because Um, we don't. It's not always easy to
measure this, and we have to assume, so the
decision making process is, is. Um, AND is, is
not transparent, uh, and researchers have to make inferences
based on the observed action. So it's not well
understood empirically, but we can build theoretical models.
Mhm. I understand. So, the last topic I would
like to ask you about is taboos. So where
do taboos stem from? I mean, where do they
come from exactly?
Yeah, so taboos, um, There are a couple of
different sources, um. Let me, let me define taboos,
um, first of all. OK, so, um, I define
it as Cultural prohibitions, this is a thing, something
that you you're not supposed to do and there
might be punishment. Uh, IF you violate, if you
transgress, um, a taboo, OK, and this is a
very general, um, definition. And as such, there are
a couple different sources where taboos can emerge in
human societies, and I focus on uh one particular.
Uh, PATHWAY for the emergence of taboos, and that
is the cognitive pathway, um, and what or what
I call uh retrospective causal attribution. In human societies.
And this refers to the idea that misfortunes are
gonna happen. In human societies, right? Um, AND because
human individuals in traditional societies do not have, um,
a ready concept of aliatory or ontic. Intrinsic chance,
they're gonna want to find out. They're gonna want
to know what caused the misfortune. So they will
engage in a process where they speculate on possible
uh possible reasons for that mis misfortune causes for
that misfortune to happen, and they identify, let's say
they tend toly decide that it, it's. Some cultural
practice that that led to some actions that the,
the uh the agents uh performed in the past
that caused his or her misfortune. Other people observes
this attribution. It has the potential to become a
taboo. In human society in in any human society.
OK. So, for example, um, A failed pregnancy? Um,
WHICH is uh very common in traditional societies. Um,
COULD, uh, compel people to identify causes of that
failed pregnancy and they might uh. Uh REMIND themselves
that uh the pregnant woman, women, female, uh, consumed
some meat. In the past, um, rabbit meat, for
example, and then, OK, so now we've got a
taboo against the consumption of rabbit meat, uh, when
the women are, uh, pregnant. Mhm. Right. And then
this process can repeat itself. Because oftentimes this cause
of retribution is incorrect, right? The same misfortune can
happen again, through pregnancy and then people are gonna
try to find the causes again, um. So this
time it's gonna be something else, right? So it's
not about rabbit meat, it's, it could be about
some other things that that people did in the
past that caused the misfortune, and we have another
taboo. And you can see how this this process
serves as a socio cognitive engine that just pumps
taboos into society. And I think this nicely explains
why traditional societies have so many taboos. Right, they're
just numerous, there's uh culturally sanctioned prohibitions. You can't
do this, you can do that, um, and the
belief, uh, Uh, regarding what the, the negative consequences
if you violate these taboos.
So are there, uh, is there a higher number
of taboos in traditional societies than in industrial, industrial
and post-industrial societies, for example?
I think so. I think there is a difference,
uh, and I referenced some of the qualitative uh
ethnographic work in in my paper. Um, I don't
think there's any systematic quantitative comparisons yet. Um, BUT
the the impression, my impression is, is that. Yes,
there there's do seem to be, um, there does
seem to be a difference between contemporary societies, because
if you think about um What When we say
the word taboo, we tend to associate. Um, There's
something negative about the word, um, as if we're
saying we're accusing that this is an irrational prohibition,
right? This is taboo in some society because there
is this cultural belief in a society which we
don't consider as valid, right? So so we call
that a taboo. Um, And we, and, and I
think it is um. It means that we we
don't have as many taboos in our societies. And
then we observe a lot more taboos, and in
particular more food taboos. This is intriguing, um, that
there are these items that you're not supposed to
eat. Um, AND, and, and all the, the beliefs
about the negative consequences if you eat these foods.
Which are not written from a scientific perspective are
not really sensical. They are just avoiding these very
nutritious food sources. And there's more of that um
in in traditional societies.
Right, but, but is there any explanation as to
why then there would be more taboos in traditional
societies than in industrialized than post-industrial societies?
Oh right, so my explanation is this is based
on my work on chance again because we have
the concept of objective chance, um, misfortunes can be
just attributed to The intrinsic unpredictability of nature that
we're just, we accept um. That misfortunes can happen
for no apparent reason, and we, that begs no
further questions. OK, there's a small probability that some
people are gonna get cancer. And right as bad
luck or genetic mutations that we can do nothing
about as opposed to persistently seeking an answer. Right,
that's gonna if you try hard enough, you're gonna
find something, uh, which is. Most likely incorrect, um,
and that can. That could contribute to the formation
of taboo, which happens more in traditional societies, uh,
and uh does not happen as much in, in
contemporary modern societies. So that's, that's one explanation, sorry,
one reason, and the other reason I think is,
is again because of the work. That, that we
have a very mechanistic, uh, again, relatively speaking, more
mechanistic and materialistic worldview about what can happen. So
some taboos are just uh um wouldn't make very
much sense in our societies.
Mhm. So, anything else about taboos that we should
know or can we wrap up our conversation?
Anything else about taboos, uh, they are, they are,
um, they're very common as an ethnographic and historical
fact. Um, SOMETIMES they are oftentimes they're untrue, right?
So the taboos against uh. CONSUMPTION of certain items
during pregnancy or when you're sick are untrue, and
they are in Tyler's words, the survival of the
past. Um ONCE now we have the much better
understanding of the causal structure of causal structures of
the world, we know better, right? Um, SO. So
I think that's, that would be the most important
lesson for um relevant for, for people uh in
contemporary societies.
Mhm. Great. So, uh, just before we go, would
you like to tell people where they can find
your work on the internet?
Yeah, so I am, I am on Twitter. I'm
not very active. Um YOU can also search my
name, Kevin Hong. University of Macau, um, and, uh,
I have, uh, you can find me, you can
find my Google Scholar web page and, um, um,
which has all my, uh, publications there. You can
also email me directly if you want to read
any of my uh academic work.
Great. So I'll be leaving some links to that
in the description of the interview and thank you
so much again for taking the time to come
on the show. It's been a very fascinating conversation.
Thank you. It's been fantastic. Um, PLEASE keep doing
what you're doing. Um, I think you're just doing
benefiting so many people who are interested in um.
These topics.
Thank you. Hi guys, thank you for watching this
interview until the end. If you liked it, please
share it, leave a like and hit the subscription
button. The show is brought to you by Nights
Learning and Development done differently, check their website at
Nights.com and also please consider supporting the show on
Patreon or PayPal. I would also like to give
a huge thank you to my main patrons and
PayPal supporters Perergo Larsson, Jerry Mullerns, Frederick Sundo, Bernard
Seyches Olaf, Alex Adam Castle, Matthew Whitting Barno, Wolf,
Tim Hollis, Erika Lenny, John Connors, Philip Fors Connolly.
Then the Mari Robert Windegaruyasi Zup Mark Nes calling
in Holbrook field governor Michael Stormir, Samuel Andrea, Francis
Forti Agnsergoro and Hal Herzognun Macha Joan Labrant Juan
and Samuel Corriere, Heinz, Mark Smith, Jore, Tom Hummel,
Sardus France David Sloan Wilson, asila dearraujuru and Roach
Diego London Correa. Yannick Punter Darusmani Charlotte blinikol Barbara
Adamhn Pavlostaevsky nale back medicine, Gary Galman Samov Zallirianeioltonin
John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward Hall Edin Bronner, Douglas
Fre Francaortolotti Gabrielon Scorteseus Slelitsky, Scott Zachary Fish Tim
Duffyani Smith John Wieman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul
Georgianneau, Luke Lovai Giorgio Theophanous, Chris Williamson, Peter Wozin,
David Williams, Diosta, Anton Eriksson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw,
Marie Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, bungalow atheists, Larry D. Lee
Junior, old Erringbo. Sterry Michael Bailey, then Sperber, Robert
Grassyigoren, Jeff McMann, Jake Zu, Barnabas radix, Mark Campbell,
Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Storry, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin
Gilbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brandon, Nicholas Carlsson, Ismael Bensleyman.
George Eoriatis, Valentin Steinman, Perrolis, Kate van Goller, Alexander
Aubert, Liam Dunaway, BR Masoud Ali Mohammadi, Perpendicular John
Nertner, Ursula Gudinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsoff, Sean Nelson,
Mike Levin, and Jos Net. A special thanks to
my producers. These are Webb, Jim, Frank Lucas Steffinik,
Tom Venneden, Bernard Curtis Dixon, Benedict Muller, Thomas Trumbull,
Catherine and Patrick Tobin, Gian Carlo Montenegroal Ni Cortiz
and Nick Golden, and to my executive producers Matthew
Levender, Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanivets, and Rosie. Thank you
for all.